.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.TH pycocci 1 "July 20, 2015"

.\" see http://www.fnal.gov/docs/products/ups/ReferenceManual/html/manpages.html
.\" see http://www.linuxjournal.com/article/1158
.\" see http://www.schweikhardt.net/man_page_howto.html
.\" groff -Tascii -man ./spatch.1 | more
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.\"
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics,
.\" respectively. Also \fR for roman.
.\" pad: src: deputy man page
.SH NAME
pycocci \- Coccinelle wrapper for SmPL patch development

.B pycocci
.B [\-h | \-\-help]
.B [\-p | \-\-profile\-cocci]
.B [\-j | \-\-jobs <job-digit> ]
.B [\-v | \-\-verbose]
.B [\-s | \-\-show\-proof]
.I <SmPL-patch.cocci>
.I <target>
.B ]
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpycocci\fP is wrapper around \fBspatch\fP, it enables a set of default
arguments and also uses a bit of heuristics to infers which arguments you
likely want enabled. It takes two arguments, the <SmPL-patch.cocci> and your
<target> which can either be a directory or file. The actual command run
is always displayed on standard output.

Coccinelle \fBspatch\fP is a very rich tool, it provides a large set of
features for use with the Coccinelle engine. Typical day to day SmPL patch
development may only require a base set of features though, we can also infer
a set of features depending on your target. \fBpycocci\fP enables a set of
flags which over time have been determined to be required for day to day
Linux kernel development, for instance through a cronjob, it also uses a set
of heuristics to infer a set of arguments to use depending on your release of
Coccinelle. \fBpycocci\fP also checks to see which version of Coccinelle you
have installed and looks to enable arguments depending on what version of
Coccinelle you have installed.

\fBpycocci\fP can also be used to help write and verify SmPL patches when
replacing a regular patch series. \fBpycocci\fP checks the version of
\fBspatch\fP installed and based on this enables a set of features. This man
page will document what options it always enables by default, why it has
done this and it will also document the heuristics used and logic behind them.

.SH DEFAULT ARGUMENTS

By default \fBpycocci\fP will always enable when running \fBspatch\fP:

\fB--in-place\fP

\fB--recursive-includes\fP

\fB--relax-include-path\fP

\fB--timeout 120\fP

\fB--dir <target>\fP

The \fB--in-place\fP option is enabled by default as most development these
days happens on version control systems and built-in version control systems
can typically display differences better.

\fB--relax-include-path\fP and \fB--relax-include-path\fP are enabled by
default given that at least for Linux kernel development some C files tend to
include headers in paths only specified by a target's Makefile through
utilities such as subdir-ccflags or ccflags-y making it difficult to ensure
all required header files are read by Coccinelle. We are aggressive with
headers search and inclusion.

A default timeout of 120 seconds is used by default. Not using a timeout
is typically not a good idea. The value of 120 is used by default and is
considered significantly large enough to support most SmPL patches.

We make use of \fB--dir\fP to enable use of a target directory and its
subdirectories recursively.

.SH MULTITHREAD ARGUMENT HEURISTICS

Coccinelle \fBspatch\fP prior to release 1.0.0 provided support for
multithreading but required the developer to spawn each thread on
their own, and provide an index reference number identifying each
thread. Coccinelle would divide the amount of work required to be
done and based on the index grant the thread a specific set of work.
Some shell scripts could be used to help split the work out for you.
\fBpycocci\fP was originally written to supersede these scripts and
use Python's multithreaded support, while also enabling some sensible
arguments by default.

If you have a version of \fBspatch\fP older than 1.0.2 \fBpycocci\fP will
provide its own built-in multithreaded batched solution, the \fBspatch\fP
--jobs argument is enabled on \fBspatch\fP >= 1.0.2. The \fBspatch\fP --jobs
arguments takes advantage of Coccinelle's built-in paramap support, and
performance-wise yields better results than \fBpycocci\fP's multithreaded
solution. The number of threads used will always default to the number of
number of CPUs on your system, this is taken from what Python
multiprocessing.cpu_count() returns. You can override the number of threads
\fBpycocci\fP will use with the --jobs argument.

.SH INDEXING ARGUMENT HEURISTICS

Coccinelle \fBpycocci\fP supports using a series of indexing alternatives:

\fB--use-glimpse\fP

\fB--use-gitgrep\fP

\fB--use-coccigrep\fP

Coccinelle puts the onus of which indexing feature to enable on the developer.
\fBpycocci\fP will figure things out for you and make sure that only supported
options are used in specific supported releases of coccinelle. So for instance,
although --use-gitgrep has been available on 1.0.1 \fBpycocci\fP will only
it on 1.0.2. The order of preference for what indexing option to uses the
following heuristics: If your target directory has a .glimpse_index file we
assume you will want to use --use-glimpse. Glimpse is now released under the
ISC license and performance-wise is known to work as the best indexing
alternative, this is why we always check for a glimpse index first. This
heuristic is however limited, you need the target path to be the base
directory where the .glimpse_index file exists, otherwise \fBpycocci\fP
will not recurse below on sub-directories. If we determine glimpse cannot
be used then \fBpycocci\fP will use \fBgit rev-parse --toplevel\fP on the specified
path to determine if the provided path is part of a git directory to enable
--use-gitgrep. Although coccinelle provides a fail-safe mechanism to enable
use of --use-gitgrep and fall back onto --use-coccigrep if a git tree is
not used, we avoid the failure case ahead of time. \fBpycocci\fP will be
tuned through each release to infer the best indexing option known to
use on your target path.

.PP
Further information about spatch is available at
\fBhttps://coccinelle.gitlabpages.inria.fr/website\fP.

.SH OPTIONS
Here is a summary of the options available on \fBpycocci\fP:

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pycocci
.B [\-h | \-\-help]
.B [\-p | \-\-profile\-cocci]
.B [\-j | \-\-jobs]
.B [\-v | \-\-verbose]
.B [\-s | \-\-show\-proof]
.I <SmPL patch>
.I <target>
.B ]

.TP
.B \-h | \-\-help
print short help menu
.TP
.B \-p | \-\-profile\-cocci
Profile the <SmPL patch> when run against <target>
.TP
.B \-j | \-\-jobs <job-digit>
Override the default number of jobs to use with <job-digit>. You really
only need this if the heuristics for the default number of jobs is
determined to be incorrect.
.TP
.B \-v | \-\-verbose
Output all possible information when run. By default \fBpycocci\fP will
provide no output unless an error is found.
.TP
.B \-s | \-\-show\-proof
Show that the <SmPL-patch.cocci> can replace a series of patches. The <SmPL-patch.cocci>
must have a .cocci postfix. A series of patches are expected to exist in the
directory named after the <SmPL-patch.cocci> with the .cocci postfix removed.
\fBpycocci\fP will use git in order to show a proof of equivalence between the
two. A new git branch will be created and used to apply the series of patches
("pycocci-patch-8-random-chars") onto the <target>, another git branch will be created and
used to apply the <SmPL-patch.cocci> ("pycocci-smpl-8-random-chars"). \fBpycocci\fP will
display name of the newly created branches and finally provide the
output of \fBgit diff --stat <pycocci-patch-8-random-chars>..<pycocci-smpl-8-random-chars>\fP. You should see
no changes, and therefore a \fBperfect SmPL patch equivalence\fP, when the diffstat
on the output shows no changes. The way to interpret a positive diffstat is that
the <SmPL-patch.cocci> is introducing more changes than the patch series. The
way to interpret a negative diffstat is that the <SmPL-patch.cocci> is lacking
some changes in place on the patch series. \fBpycocci\fP will use \fBgit rev-parse --toplevel\fP
against the <target> to see if the <target> is part of a git tree. If the <target>
is not part of a git tree a git tree is created for you on <target> if <target>
is a directory or on the base directory of <target> if <target> is a file.
\fBpycocci\fP will return you to the branch previously set on the <target> if
one was previously set, otherwise if a new git tree was created for you \fBpycocci\fP
will set the tree back to the master branch. Each run of \fBpycocci --show-proof\fP
will create two new git branches. 8 random characters are postixed to each new
git branch created to avoid conflicts with previous runs.

You must run this option with a clean git tree, if you have any pending changes
you must commit them or discard them.

.B\-c | \-\-clean\-proof
This does what -\-show\-proof does but this is completely silent unless an
error occurs. It will also remove the git branches used to test for the
equivalence proof, unless an error is found. If an error is found you can
inspect the two branches used to test for proof, refer to the documentation
on \-\-show\-proof for details about these branches. This option is useful
if you want to automate tests with proofs.

Note that using this method will have created and subsequently if successful
deleted two git branches on your git tree. As a consequence of using git
branches your git reflog will show these branches, if you push your tree
out these branches will not be pushed as they were deleted, your reflog
however will keep these references locally until git expires them, by default
this is 30 days. If this is too chatty for you, you can run:

	git reflog expire \-\-all \-\-expire=now

This will immediately clear old entries from your reflog.

.SH AUTHOR
\fBpycocci\fP and this man page was written by Luis R. Rodriguez <mcgrof@kernel.org>

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Send a mail to <cocci@inria.fr>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2015, Luis R. Rodriguez
pycocci is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, according to version 2 of the License.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fIspatch\fP(1), \fIpycocci\fP(1), \fIdiff\fP(1)
